= dm-is-select

A DataMapper plugin that makes getting the <tt><select></tt> options from a Model easier.


== Installation

  #  Add Gemcutter to your RubyGems sources 
  $  gem sources -a http://gemcutter.com

  $  (sudo)? gem install dm-is-select
  
=== Dependencies

The plugin depends upon the following:

* dm-core ( >= 1.0.0)


== Getting Started

Let's say you got a basic Category Model.

  class Category
    include DataMapper::Resource
    property :id, Serial
    property :name, String
    
    is :select, :name
    
  end
    
Through that simple declaration you get the following class method ..

  Category.items_for_select_menu

...which returns an Array with the Model items in a structured way, ready for use.

  [
    [nil, "Select Category"], 
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    [1, "Category 1"], 
    [2, "Category 2"], 
    [3, "Category 3"], 
    [4, "Category 4"], 
    [5, "Category 5"]
  ]

Great, but you don't want the prompt to say "Select Category", but 

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :prompt => "Choose Whatever" )


...which returns the Array with the prompt changed

  [
    [nil, "Choose Whatever"], 
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    [1, "Category 1"], 
    ...<snip>...
  ]


OK, but you don't like the divider node (2nd in output above). That’s fine, you remove it like this:

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :divider => false )


...which returns the Array with the divider removed

  [
    [nil, "Select Category"], 
    [1, "Category 1"], 
    ...<snip>...
  ]



Hmm, fine, but I don't want either a prompt or a divider, you say. That's fine too.

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :prompt => false )

...which returns the Array with the prompt and divider removed

  [
    [1, "Category 1"], 
    [1, "Category 2"], 
    ...<snip>...
  ]


OK, that's smooth, but my Category model is a tree with parents, children and so on. This won't work with that.

Sure, no problem, just do this when you declare the Model:

  is :select, :name, :is_tree => true


Then you can just use this

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :prompt => "Choose Parent" )
  
...and you get this nicely formatted <tt><select></tt> options array

  [
    [nil, "Choose Parent"], 
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    [0, "Top Level Category"],
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    [1, "Parent-1"], 
    [2, "-- Parent-1-Child"], 
    [3, "-- -- Parent-1-Child-GrandChild"],
    [4, "Parent-2"], 
    [5, "-- Parent-2-Child"], 
    [6, "-- -- Parent-2-Child-GrandChild"]
  ]
  
<b>NB!</b> It only supports 3 levels at this point in time, as I think that's enough in most use cases, 
but IF not, fix the code and let me know and I'll add it.

Cool, but that "Top Level Category" node is a bit ugly, but easily fixed. 

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :root_text => "1st Parent (root)" )

...gives you:
  
  [
    ...<snip>...
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    [0, "1st Parent (root)"],
    ["nil", "  ------  "], 
    ...<snip>...
  ]

You can even remove it all together by doing this:

  Category.items_for_select_menu( :show_root => false )




Obviously all the config options from above works with Tree models as well.

== Last Few Words

OK, I admit it, not the most impressive DM plugin there is, but hey, it sure helps keeping your model/views cleaner.


== RTFM 

For a better understanding of this gem/plugin, make sure you study the '<tt>dm-is-select/spec/integration/select_spec.rb</tt>' file.
 

== Errors / Bugs

If something is not behaving intuitively, it is a bug, and should be reported.
Report it here: http://github.com/kematzy/dm-is-select/issues 

== Credits

Copyright (c) 2009-07-12 Kematzy [ kematzy gmail com ]

== Licence

Released under the MIT license.
